In the last few lessons we've been looking at regular expressions and I know there's quite a bit to
learn with regular expressions.
So I want to do a quick run through in this lesson in order to go over a few other aspects that are
available within regular expression.
So the ones that I want to look Klak look at is I want to look at some regular expression methods so
we know that with regular expression methods we need to establish a pattern.
So let's go ahead and create that pattern.
So first then we need to do establish our pattern.
So this was we're going to use P And We need to create a brand new regular expression object.
So let's go ahead and create one of those and now included within here so this is where our pattern
goes.
So for this case we're just looking at Java.
So we're going to match the words Java that's included in this text area and we're going to show you
couple different methods in order to output those patterns.
So the first one that we're going to look at is test so variable result 1.
And let's set this one up to do the test.
So this is going to take the pattern which is p.
So we're looking for the word Java within our string.
And next the method.
So the method is test and what test will do is this will return true or false.
And lastly we need to get our string value in to the rounded brackets.
And now what we can do is console log the soat into our log so we can actually see if this is true or
false.
So when I log out that result one goes into the browser refreshed and when we hit extract We see that
it's true.
If I get rid of Java and try to extract We see that it's false.
So basically this gives you a really quick way to do a quick check of the contents there.
And the other option that I want to show you the object method that I want to show you is execute so
execute will actually return back even more so we're going to do that same pattern the same string value.
And I going to put it within the console.
So let's go back and refreshed the page and extract and this should actually be results too.
So go back again refresh the page and hit extract.
And this time we see that we're getting a whole bunch of information that's being returned here.
So first of all we get the value.
So we've got Java.
And if I include at a number of other times and I extract it.
We're going to still see that first occurrence of it.
So we know that it occurs on index 9 and we get that whole input being returned as well.
And we can make use of this information that's being returned in a number of different formats because
this is just pulled into an object within javascript and then we can really easily call to the index
the input and we can also get that returned value.
So when it comes to regular expression try with the simple stuff first and then try to get even more
complex queries.
So Reg x our dot com has some really great examples and they're definitely worth checking out.
So this one in particular pulls out all the four letter word so that's what I've got here on the page.
So we see that it's highlighting all of the matching words and we can also ignore the case and multiline.
So again we have those parameters there that we can add to the expression.
We can also pull back different words.
So we see that this one is pulling back a series of words we can pull out for numbers so I can bring
this one in and we can see that it's automatically highlighting the phone numbers and also just pulling
out certain words.
So we've got test and it will pull back.
E r i n g e d r s.
So even if we have tests that will be pulled back test test staed gets pulled back.
So there's a number of different options here that that are getting pulled back and that's all coming
back from this regular expression which of course you can take and you can copy into your java script
and make it work within your own code.
So definitely try to check this as well as do some Google searches and there's a number of really great
tools to find out more about regular expressions and to learn more about them.
And I do advise to start out with the simple expressions and work your way up.
So try something with you just typing in a simple word and then also try number combinations.
So getting all the number values and then move along from there so up to all the letters capital letters
including all of you can also flip it and do the non numbers server.
And that's not a number.
And so on.
So this is similar to what we saw earlier
and it does take some time to get really familiar with regular expressions.
So do practice and try it for yourself.